[indistinct chatter]
(people chattering)
(ok)
(footsteps)
[Street noise]
(speaking Spanish)
It's over there.
Here?
Yes.
They already have the yeast.
It's over there.
OK.
I'm going to take the machine from here.
Thank you very much.
Excuse me.
(speaking in foreign language)
[Spanish]
[speaking Spanish]
(speaking in foreign language)
[Spanish]
So the two things that are important, one is we can't make the yeast too much in
advance because we need to have our full coffee and we make the yeast based on
how much coffee we have. So we can't just start rehydrating some guests and then
we could waste a lot of yeast. So you're gonna have to time it. The other
thing that's important is we pulped without water but now I want a little
bit more because I want it all to be covered. So now we can add a little bit
more water because here we have some coffee underwater and some coffee above water.
So I just want this to be really evenly distributed.
Again, a better pulper would have a lot less cascara.
So, like I said, this is just, we're working with what we got.
This is not demonstration purposes.
Demonstration purposes only.
This is not Lucia's recommended.
My recommendation is to take this out as much as you can.
So now we're going to add the yeast to here very slowly.
You're gonna pour it in very slowly.
So we have to mix the two things at the same time so that everything is mixed.
We are running and we are going to put it on this side.
But you always put this at the beginning, right?
(we did it this time because the temperature was 36 and the coffee was 22)
(so if the coffee was hotter or the temperature was lower it's not necessary)
(it's an extra step to avoid that shock)
(you take it out)
(use every drop)
(you can keep doing it)
[INAUDIBLE]
[Splashing]
[Spanish]
So this is a small scale. We did half a ton. If we have twice the amount of coffee, it's better to have two smaller tanks that you can mix than one large one that's really hard to move.
heavy. So that makes it look easy because it's very strong but it's very difficult
to move this much coffee. If we had a really big beneficiary, let's say we have
ten tubs and instead of having ten little tanks, one of the things that we
can do is prepare our yeast and as the tank is filling we can dose it. So you
can do a little bit of dosing the yeast as a tank is filling so that the mixing
is a little bit easier but those are like the big the ones that I showed in
Africa like swimming pool size tanks. But if you can,
thoroughly mix it.
So now we're going to let the yeast acclimate a little bit.
What Ceas is doing is he's getting a cover. He's getting a plastic.
How much do you have to eat?
We're going to talk a little bit more and then we'll come back before lunch.
And then we're going to get the pH and we're going to get the temperature and we're going to get the other measurements.
Okay.
So the size of that container, that was part of the formula that you said is in there?
Mm-hmm.
So yeah, this, we use two liters for 200 kilos of pulped coffee.
Yeah.
So this is about the size.
(speaking in foreign language)
Yeah, it's nice to do it at night.
Ideally, it's at night.
Yes, it's a night job.
Like I said, I'm only doing this
'cause I didn't wanna keep you all up until 11.
(speaking in foreign language)
So this is, the goal is not to make this
an anaerobic tight sealed fermentation.
It's just to protect my coffee from anything,
any birds flying, any insects,
any cats that want to come smell this
and stick their nose in here.
And the other thing is the reason I'm touching the surface
and skimming the surface is because I want
all my coffee to be homogenous, right?
So the coffee that's a couple layers underneath
is completely submerged.
If I do this, the top layer that would be exposed to air
is now acting as if it's submerged
without having too much water.
So you wanna think of this as like a concentrate, a soup.
If I have more water, it's easier to mix,
but I'm diluting my flavors.
So I want as little water as possible, but enough to cover.
(speaking in foreign language)
but not so much that it starts to dilute
it's like making a soup or a very concentrated sauce
It's important to measure it, it's important to see the amount of coffee
Yes, the amount of coffee and in this way also with the plastic
all the coffee, even if it doesn't have so much water, is submerged, is wet
and is not exposed to that oxygen
So now in your books, Maria, you have your bookshelf.
We can fill it up to the top.
Can we touch it?
Yeah, you can touch it.
We're all going to touch it.
And then later we're going to open it up.
So you're going to cover it and use the end of the fermentation?
No.
Yes, that's what we're going to talk about.
So this is another big error that I see coffee producers making.
They start their fermentation and then they don't open it again until the end.
You're going to tell me if you're hungry.
(speaking in foreign language)
[Spanish]
So that's a really big practice.
A lot of producers start their fermentation,
they seal it in those tanks,
and then you're blind for another 48 hours
or a couple of days.
You don't know what's going on.
I don't like that method.
We're gonna see what's happening
and we're gonna keep checking
and see how the fermentation is going.
So that's another reason I'm very anti
those carbonic maceration, like sealed tanks,
is because you're completely blind.
You don't know what's happening,
So you can't make adjustments to see, okay, is it getting too hot?
Is it getting too cold?
What's going to change my temperature?
Is there a weird smell?
Do I need to do something?
Because you're just sealed the whole time.
But I mean, can you just put the lid on, not lock it, just open up, I mean, time to time?
Yes, but the whole point of the carbonic maceration is to keep that pressure and to keep that gas.
So every time you open it, you're releasing all that gas.
So you're not achieving the carbonic maceration effect.
If you want just to do the fermentation of this,
and instead of this plastic--
You can use one of those tanks.
Yeah, you can use anything.
You can use a plastic bag.
A lid.
And yeah.
But not just the lid.
I want this plastic because I want it to touch the surface.
If I just put a lid on top, I would have this much air space.
I would have this much head space in contact.
So all of this coffee on top would be different than the one on the bottom.
And it's not that big of a deal.
We're going to talk about geometry because it's a small surface area and a large volume.
But most coffee tanks are what?
Swimming pools.
So you have very little volume and a lot of surface area.
So your coffee on top is different than what's on the bottom.
So this way I'm kind of combating the geometry of a traditional tank.
Yes, we are. We're going to mix it. That's a big part of my method is mixing, homogenizing,
and like I said, not being blind. Most of the methods, you put it in and then you come
back in three days.
Right? So now we're going to go back to the citric.
That's the light.
[Spanish]
(speaking in foreign language)
[inaudible]
[Spanish]
(sizzling)
(speaking in foreign language)
[BLANK_AUDIO]